# A Bit of History

C++ and Java are both part of an ancient lineage of programming languages.

Decades ago, there were languages like COBOL and FORTRAN, which fortunately, are
not used very often any more. Then, there was C, which has become the _lingua
franca_ of the programming world. Most operating systems in wide use today are
written in C. Any time a program in any language needs to do some sort of
operation with the OS, it must go through some sort of Foreign Function
Interface to a C-based interface. On many systems, basic system libraries are
written in C, such as `libc`.

However, towards the turn of the century, people started to realize that Object
Oriented Programming has a lot benefits to offer. There were two primary
attempts to add objects to C. 

One attempt was headed by NeXT, a company founded by Steve Jobs after he was
forced out of Apple. The language NeXT designed was subsequently adopted by
Apple when Jobs re-joined Apple. It was the primary language used to write macOS
and iOS apps: Objective-C. More recently, Objective-C has been suceeded by
Swift, Apple's new programming language.

The other attempt is C++ (originally called "C with Classes"), and it was
created by Bjarne Stroustrup. It remains more popular than Objective-C among
programmers.

Over the years, C++ has accumulated numerous features, becoming a truly massive,
feature-rich language. However, many have argued that the addition of features
has caused C++ to become too messy. Java is a direct attempt to clean up C++. It
was originally developed at Sun Microsystems (now Oracle) by James Gosling.

However, because of the fundamentally different class of programs each language
addresses (C++ is more of a systems language), both C++ and Java are commonly
used. C++ and Java are both getting major new language features, as they enter a
new era of programming.

So... enough of the history lesson. Let's go on to C++.
